# Research and Analysis over Open Source Papers (featuring Grobid)

## Description of the project

This practical exercise accepts open source articles in Grobid TEI XML format, processes them, and returns three files to the user with the analysis results containing the following information:
- A keyword cloud from the abstracts
- A visualization of the number of figures per article
- A list of links found in each paper

Ten open source papers in the required format are included along with the results of the analysis so that the user can verify its functionality and then test it with their own articles.

Last version: 1.0

## Requirements
Python 3.10+

Libraries:
- beautifulsoup4
- pandas
- matplotlib
- wordcloud
- nltk
- lxml
- pytest

## Installation

Open a terminal and clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/Abielmenda/IndividualAssigment.git

Create the compatible environment:

python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

Install all dependencies needed:

pip install -r requirements.txt

## Execution

Include your open source articles in the "entryData" folder in the appropriate format or use the example ones.
Run the full analysis:

python script/xmlAnalyzer.py

After execution the following files are generated:

analysisResult/keyword_cloud.png  
analysisResult/figures_per_paper.png  
analysisResult/links_per_paper.txt

Two tests are included:
1. Check the correct input format
2. Check that output documents exist

run the next command in your terminal:

python -m pytest

## Running with Docker (alternative)
start a terminal and a docker CLI or docker Dektop, check docker

docker --version

Build the Docker image (Warning: if you have bad internet conexion you may run the next comand more than one time if you get a runtime error):

docker build -t paperAnalysis .

Run the experiment:

docker run --rm paperAnalysis                              

## Validation of the running example

Ten open-source papers on the general AI paradigm are included.

- Word Cloud: It is expected that the words appearing in the abstract will be AI concepts, as can be seen in my word cloud, which includes terms like "uncertainty," "learning network," and "optimization," among others. The term "food" stands out because two of the articles were closely related, as they dealt with the use of AI for food distribution.

- Figures per paper: I counted the images in the six articles with fewer than 20 figures, and the numbers match.

- Links per paper: I checked the list of links and found the same ones.

## Limitations

- Abstract keyword extraction depends on preprocessing quality, so I had to add overly general words from the scientific literature to the predefined list of words to ignore.
- Figure counting relies on TEI tags generated by Grobid. I searched for 2 tags and like i said, en los papers con menos de 20 imagenes al menos están todas pero puede que en otros articulos no cuadren los números porque me haya podido dejar alguna etiqueta de imagenes de Grobid.
No tiene en cuenta si la imgen tiene que ver con el articulo.
- As in the previous point, I had to broaden the search to include 3 different tag formats because initially it missed some URLs that it couldn't identify. It's possible that even with that, I still missed some formats, for example, if ome URLs may be split across lines in the original PDF.

## Preferred citation

Main author: Alberto Aragón Calvo
Other pseudonyms: "Abielmenda", "The one who burns all the grass"

## Where to get help

E-mail me at Abielmenda@gmail.com

## Acknowledgements

This project uses Grobid for document parsing. Thank you Patrice Lopez.
